Speaker1:
Hello, Chicago.
If there is anyone out there.
Who still doubts that America is a place.
Where all things are possible, who still
wonders.
If the dream of our founders is alive in our
time?
Who still questions the power of our
democracy?
Tonight is your.
Answer. It's the answer told by lines that
stretched
around schools. And churches in numbers this
nation has never seen by people who.
Waited 3 hours and 4 hours, many for the
first time in their lives.
Because they believed that this time must be
different, that their voices could be that
difference. It's the answer spoken by young
and old, rich and poor, Democrat and
Republican, black, white, Hispanic, Asian,
Native American, gay, straight, disabled and
not disabled Americans who sent a message to
the world that we have never been just a
collection of individuals or a collection of
red states and blue states.
We are and always will be, the United States
of America.
It's the answer.
That led those who've been told for so long
by so many to be cynical and fearful and
doubtful about what we can achieve to put
their hands on the arc of history and bend it
once more toward the hope of a better day.
It's been a long time coming, but tonight,
because of what we did on this day.
In this election, at this defining moment.
Change has come to America.
A little bit earlier this evening, I received
an extraordinarily gracious call from Senator
McCain. Senator McCain fought long and hard
in this campaign, and
he's fought even longer and harder for the
country that he loves.
He has endured sacrifices for America that
most of us cannot begin to imagine.
We are better off for the service rendered
by this brave and selfless leader.
I congratulate him.
I congratulate Governor Palin for all that
they've achieved.
And I look forward to working with them to
renew this nation's promise in the months
ahead. I want to thank my partner in this
journey.
A man who campaigned from his heart and spoke
for the men and women he grew up with on the
streets of Scranton and rode with on the
train home to Delaware.
The vice president elect of the United
States, Joe Biden.
And I would not be standing.
Here tonight without the unyielding support
of my best friend.
For the last 16 years.
The rock of our family.
The love of my life.
The nation's next first lady.
Michelle Obama.
Sasha and Malia.
I love you both.
More than you can imagine.
And you have earned the new puppy.
That's coming with us to the White House.
And while she's no longer with us, I know my
grandmother is watching.
Along with the family that made me who I am.
I miss them tonight.
I know that my debt to them is beyond
measure.
To my sister Maya, my sister Alma, all my
other brothers and sisters.
Thank you so much for all the support that
you've given me.
I am grateful to them.
To my campaign manager, David Plouffe.
The unsung hero.
Of this campaign who built the best.
The best political campaign.
I think, in the history of the United States
of America.
To my. Chief strategist.
David Axelrod.
He's been a partner with.
Me every step.
Of the way to the best campaign team ever
assembled in the history of politics.
You made this happen, and I am forever
grateful for what you've sacrificed to get it
done. But above all.
I will never forget who this victory truly
belongs to.
It belongs to you.
I was never. The likeliest candidate for
this office.
We didn't start with much money or many
endorsements.
Our campaign was not hatched in the halls of
Washington.
It began in the backyards of Des Moines and
the living rooms of Concord and the front
porches of Charleston.
It was built by working men and women who
dug into what little savings they had to give
$5 of $10 and $20 to the cost.
It grew strength from the young people who
rejected the myth of their generation's
apathy. Who left their homes and their
families for jobs that offered little pay and
less sleep. It drew strength from the not so
young people who braved the bitter cold and
scorching heat to knock on doors of perfect
strangers.
And from the millions of Americans who
volunteered and organized and proved that
more than two. Centuries later, a government
of the people.
By the people and for the people has not
perished from the earth.
This is your victory.
Now, I know you didn't.
Do this just to win an election, and I know
you didn't do it for me.
You did it because you understand the
enormity of the task that lies ahead for even
as we celebrate tonight.
We know the challenges that tomorrow will
bring are the greatest of our lifetimes.
Two wars, a planet in peril, the worst
financial crisis in a century.
Even as we stand here tonight, we know there
are brave Americans waking up in the deserts
of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan to
risk their lives for us, their mothers and
fathers who will lie awake after their
children fall asleep and wonder how they'll
make the mortgage or pay their doctor's
bills or save enough for their child's
college education.
There's new energy to harness, new jobs to
be created, new schools to build.
And threats to meet.
Alliances to repair.
The road ahead will be long.
Our climb will be steep.
We may not get there in one year or even in
one term.
But America, I have never been more hopeful.
Than I am tonight that we will get there.
I promise you, we as a people will get
there.
There will be setbacks and false starts.
There are many who won't agree with every
decision or policy I make as president, and
we know the government can't solve every
problem.
But I will always be honest with you about
the challenges we face.
I will listen to you, especially when we
disagree.
And above all, I will ask you to join in the
work of remaking this nation the only way
it's been done in America for 221 years.
Block by block, brick by brick, calloused
hand by calloused hand.
What began 21 months ago in the depths of
winter cannot end on this autumn night.
This victory alone is not the change we
seek.
It is only the chance for us to make that
change.
And that cannot happen if we go back to the
way things were.
It can happen without you.
Without a new spirit of service, a new
spirit of sacrifice.
So let us summon a new spirit of patriotism,
of responsibility, where each of us resolves
to pitch in and work harder and look after
not only ourselves, but each other.
Let us remember that if this financial
crisis taught us anything, it's that we
cannot have a thriving Wall Street while
Main Street suffers.
In this country, we rise or fall as one
nation, as one people.
Let's resist the temptation to fall back on
the same partisanship and pettiness and
immaturity that has poisoned our politics
for so long.
Let's remember that it was a man from this
state who first carried the banner of the
Republican Party to the White House, a party
founded on the values of self-reliance and
individual liberty and national unity.
Those are values that we all share.
And while the Democratic Party has won a
great victory tonight, we do so with a
measure of humility and determination to
heal the divides that have held back our
progress. As Lincoln said, to a
nation far more divided than ours.
We are not enemies, but friends.
Though passion may have strained, it must not
break our bonds of affection.
And to those Americans who who support I have
yet to earn.
I may not have won your vote tonight, but I
hear your voices.
I need your. Help.
And I will be your president, too.
And all those watching.
Tonight from beyond our shores, from
parliaments and palaces to those who are
huddled around radios and the forgotten
corners of the world.
Our stories are singular, but our destiny is
shared.
And a new dawn of American leadership is at
hand.
To those.
To those who would tear the world down.
We will defeat you.
To those who seek peace and security, we
support you.
And to all those who have wondered if
America's beacon still burns as bright.
Tonight, we proved once more that the true
strength of our nation comes not from the
might of our arms or the scale of our
wealth, but from the enduring.
Power of our ideals, democracy, liberty,
opportunity, and unyielding hope.
That's the true genius of America that
America can change.
Our union can be perfected.
And what we've already achieved gives us
hope for what we can and must achieve
tomorrow. This election had many firsts and
many stories that will be told for
generations. But one that's on my mind
tonight is about a woman who cast her ballot
in Atlanta. She's a lot like the millions of
others who stood in line to make their voice
heard in this election, except for one
thing.
And Nixon Cooper is 106 years old.
She was born just a generation past slavery,
a time when there were no cars on the road or
planes in the sky.
When someone like her couldn't vote for two
reasons because she was a woman and because
of the color of her skin.
And tonight I think about all that she's
seen throughout her century in America, the
heartache and the hope, the struggle and the
progress, the times we were told that we
can't. And the people who pressed on with
that American creed, yes, we can.
At a time when women's voices were silenced
and their hopes dismissed.
She lived to see them stand up and speak out
and reach for the ballot.
Yes, we can.
When there was despair in the dustbowl and
depression across the land, she saw a nation
conquer fear itself with a new deal, new
jobs, a new sense of common purpose.
Yes, we can.
When the bombs fell on our harbor and
tyranny threatened the world, she was there
to witness a generation rise to greatness.
And a democracy was saved.
Yes, we can.
She was there for the buses in Montgomery,
the hoses in Birmingham, a bridge in Selma,
and a preacher from Atlanta who told the
people that we shall overcome.
Yes, we can.
A man touched down on the moon.
A wall came down in Berlin.
A world was connected by our own science and
imagination.
And this year, in this election, she touched
her finger to a screen and cast her vote.
Because after 106 years in America, through
the best of times and the darkest of hours,
she knows how America can change.
Yes, we can.
America, we have come so far.
We have seen so much.
But there's so much more to do.
So tonight, let us ask ourselves if our
children should live to see the next century.
If my daughters should be so lucky to live
as long as Ann Nixon Cooper, what change will
they see? What progress will we have made?
This is our chance to answer that call.
This is our moment.
This is our time to put our people back to
work and open doors of opportunity for our
kids to restore prosperity and promote the
cause of peace, to reclaim the American
dream, and reaffirm that fundamental truth
that out of many, we are one.
That while we breathe, we hope, and where we
are met with cynicism and doubt, and those
who tell us that we can't, we will respond
with that timeless creed that sums up the
spirit of a people.
Yes, we can.
Thank you. God bless you.
And may God bless the United States of
America.